My favorite medical term to say, superventricular tachycardia. What the [ __ ] does that mean? >> it just rolls right off the tongue. Welcome to Josh Smith's Great Chat Show. If you're new here, make sure you like, subscribe, or follow so you never miss a chat. And today, I'm joined by Noah Wyle. You will know him from starring in a million episodes of ER. And now he's back in the hospital in his new hit show, The Pitt, which is one of the best TV shows I have watched this year. You're going to love it, too. And of course, we really get into that show in the chat today. We also talk about his views on the world, and we also talk about finding success at different stages in his life. So, fancy a chat? Noah, welcome to the Great Chat Show. >> Wonderful to be here. How are you doing? >> Really well, thank you. Good. Well, we always get straight in on this show. >> And go with the big questions first. So, I want to know, what's the greatest chat you've had that's had the biggest impact on you? I don't know why, but it's the first one coming to mind. It's super odd that it's the first one coming to mind. There was an actress that I met really early on, before I when I was a little kid. Her name was Laura Esterman, and she was in a play in Los Angeles that was actually a Steven Berkoff play, Englishman's play, called uh Kvetch. And I was expressing interest in acting, and my parents arranged it so that I could see that play, and then Laura was going to take me out for a cup of coffee and discuss what it is of how you become a professional actor. And for some reason, her taking my interest seriously enough to have a cup of coffee with me after her play, and actually engage in a conversation about how one becomes an actor if they want to, I think was really really impactful. What can you remember from that conversation that's stuck with you? >> Well, just that she normalized the process into being attainable. It wasn't like a pie in the sky fantasy like, "Oh, no, you couldn't do it, kid, or you'll never make it, kid." It was a sort of like, "Yeah, you seem to want to do it for the right reasons. You seem to be interested for the right, you know, in the right way. Here's what I would advise you do. Like, here's a prescriptive road map." And you need those people. You definitely need mentors are hugely important. Which is so odd as a parent cuz you want to be everything to your kid, but they so desperately need >> [clears throat] >> somebody that isn't you to step in and augment that teaching. Mhm. Have there been other mentors who've really Yes, very. Yeah, tons. I'm extremely grateful for the angels and prophets and ghosts who have attended me. And now you get to pass it on as well, because you are really taking the lead in The Pitt. Not only the lead, you're doing exactly what you said. You're directing as well. >> but the truth is I'm dragging all these kids. Yeah. >> [laughter] >> But it must be amazing to be at this stage in your career and be able to bring a new generation with you as well. Has that been really cathartic for you? >> really wonderful to watch a show become a hit from the perspective of an elder statesman as opposed to the ingenue, and to watch all these young actors go through it for the first time and be discovered and have their work appreciated for the first time. I'm almost enjoying it more watching it happen to them than I did when it happened to me. >> Mhm. Can you remember what it felt like when it happened the first time? What was it like? >> Just uh mainlining [clears throat] heroin. It's the it's a rush of all rushes. You go from feeling like an outsider, feeling like you don't fit in, feeling like you're never going to fit in to finding a tribe of people that you might be able to hang with, to actually feeling like you can hold your own in that tribe, but that nobody's going to care about what you're doing outside that tribe, and then suddenly you do something that gets, you know, national or international attention, and it's it's a adult portion. It's very intense. You go from having that huge success in your 20s, and then finding it again in your 50s. Like, you've won every single major acting award for The Pitt, which is exceptional after having like, what was it, seven Emmy nominations before you >> Oh god, no, only five. Only five. Only only five casual Emmy nominations. What does it mean to achieve the success now? I think those trophies mean something different than they used to mean to me back in my 20s, you know, when I was aspiring to win one and uh desirous of of having one. I think that I thought that it would confer a sense of validation or or graduation in in a career. And the truth is they they're sort of they're lovely and they're gravy, but uh you they usually come for last year's work, and you're so focused on this year's work. And this whole award season came while we were trying to make season 2. And I found that I was more invested in the work that we were doing than I was in taking the bows for the work that we had done, and I thought that that was maturity. It's cuz it's about the joy of the craft, isn't it? >> what's next. >> that. >> What's next, yeah. Yeah. And to really focus on enjoying it rather than worrying about the outcome the whole time. >> And truthfully, the the thing that validates, the thing that confers meaning is the response you get from the people whose lives are touched by the work. And that those anecdotes, when someone shares with me, "Oh, that episode really helped me when my mom was passing," or "That reminded me so much of when um, you know, that happened to my son. Uh it was actually very cathartic." That ultimately becomes more rewarding than than a trophy. What was it about your desire to return to a hospital drama? Because I was reading that after ER, you were like, "Nope, I don't want to any medical shows. I don't even want to play a vet. Like, keep the stethoscopes away from me." So, what about this specific time made it the right time for you? >> It was really uh desired to tell a new story that hadn't really been told post-COVID about what was happening in the American health care system. And all the mail I was getting from the people that I knew that were still in those jobs was telling me that there was another story to tell. And uh as they were paying me the compliment of saying that I had been instrumental in them going into that line of work, I was feeling a lack of relevance to their lives at that moment, and really wished I had something to offer them that wasn't 25 years old. And I teamed up with John Wells and Scott Gemmill, who felt similarly. What's the big difference as you've seen in the kind of crisis in health care in between times? >> What was interesting when we sat down in the writing room to think, okay, well, what can we do that we didn't do before? Let's write some ideas on the board. Okay, well, mass shootings, that wasn't a thing back in the '90s. Fentanyl, that wasn't a thing back in the '90s. Uh border crisis, that wasn't a thing. Nursing shortage, that wasn't a thing. COVID, that wasn't a thing. Trans rights, that wasn't a thing. Uh you know, incel kids. There were so many things that weren't part of our lexicon 15 years ago that it suddenly became very clear that the things that were most pressing were were new and worthy of exploring. When you were having the conversations in the prep for this with the frontline workers, is there one that really sticks out to you and really remains with you when you're going onto set and you're building this character and you're building this world? >> Yeah, two. Two in particular. One is a gentleman who works on our show as a technical advisor. He's a board-certified emergency room physician. His name is Dr. Mel Herbert, and he is sort of a a legend in in the field of emergency medicine. And he shared with me some really personal memories and anecdotes from his career that I found really informative. And there was another doctor that I met out one night, and he just shared with me the toll that his career took on him that he wasn't really ready to really acknowledge publicly. And I got a lot from from both of those guys. Cuz one of the underlining themes, especially in the first season, is your character's mental health journey as you go through that shift. And it's so nuanced, and it's so well done, and it comes to a head at the end of the first season in a really heartfelt, very special way that starts so many conversations. But we have such a problem with talking about male mental health in our society. Why do you think that is? Well, >> [sighs] >> the classic stigmas have to do with, you know, admitting vulnerability. I think in in Rorrie's case, it's sometimes even harder if you're in a position of leadership where people are looking to you to be the voice of confidence or competence, and you're the one who's looking out for everyone else. Who helps the helper is, you know, an interesting theme that we wanted to explore. It can be a very lonely place when you don't feel like you have the ability to put down your competency mask and admit that you're having a little bit of impostor syndrome or worse, you know, an existential crisis. I think traditionally, men tend to feel like they have to shoulder their responsibilities and silently be stoic about what it is that's bothering them. I think, you know, when the world is a flame, taking time out for your own personal feelings feels indulgent to some people. Um I don't know. I think there's a lot of reasons. Has there been a time you've had to have a mental health awakening in a way, or a it's been a real moment >> Yeah. >> [laughter] >> I have no shame about admitting my vulnerabilities or my shortcomings, and I've relied heavily on the therapeutic process throughout my life and career. Mhm. How much has talking helped you? A lot. A lot. I mean, I want storylines on The Pitt to do what ER used to do, where people could watch it and they go, "Oh, oh, uh I want to see if that's true." And they could call their doctor and say, "I saw this on ER. Is that true?" "Oh, yeah, that is true." And it becomes a very casual and intimate conversation between a doctor and a patient around something that they could triangulate through a piece of art. So, I wanted this to be that again, to be relevant and to allow people to feel seen and heard and go, "Oh, my sister had that. My brother had that. I'm curious about that. Or even more profoundly, if they find themselves moved by a storyline and somebody that they have nothing in common with also is moved by that storyline, then perhaps we have more in common than we we thought. Well, that's the whole point of what the show is about starting these conversations. And there's so many things you cover like you were saying like incel culture and even rape and so many important things that we don't usually even really tackle on our screens. Is there a conversation from the show you're particularly proud of? Well, if we do tackle them, we don't slow them down to real life pace. You know, I think that's the difference with this show. That end-of-life storyline we did in season 1, we slowed down the end of a life to real-time so you could really feel like you were attendant in that situation. We did a birth that was so immediate and graphic and, you know, vivid that you really felt like you were experiencing that miracle in the room. And similarly with the examination of our sexual survivor, going through the methodical process of an intake and an an investigation. think people had really seen before and I think that becomes both informative and engaging and demystifying in some ways, educational. Do you find it nerve-racking to talk about certain topics, especially when they get political on a TV show? So, for instance, ICE coming to the show. Do you get nervous about addressing those topics outwardly in a culture where algorithms of can be very toxic. Everyone can pile on. Do you think it's vital that we have this outlet to talk about these things, especially when it's political? I do think it's vital. I I do There's a There's a lovely Andy Warhol quotation where he said, "Art is getting away with it." So, you kind of want to do it in a way that doesn't call attention to itself. You want the impact to be felt and to be experienced without really being noticed. If it's noticed, you tend to want to look for the manipulative tool that made you feel something that you weren't sure you wanted to feel and then it becomes something you could point to as being dogmatic or preachy. And we wanted to be a lot more insidious in the way that we laid these things out and a lot more subtle in the way that we presented them so that they could seem nuanced and complex and familiar without it necessarily becoming triggering for for immediate response. What I think is so special about the show, especially from your character's lens, is it really reminds you of the everyday heroes. And there are so many everyday heroes out there and especially most of the time we're in our darkest in life, like when we're living on life and death and like for instance, when you're at the ER accident emergency here, it's strangers who come to help you. And I think strangers are such a powerful thing. We can't let go of the fact that people around us can help us in different ways. Is there a moment in your life that's really taught you the power of a stranger? I remember I was in New York once and I lost my wallet on the street and I was in my mid-20s, lost all my identification, lost all my money. And um I didn't know how to go about canceling all those credit cards and how to apply for new driver's license and all that stuff. And I was sort of worrying about it and as I went back to my hotel a couple hours later, when I got to the hotel, there was a package at the front desk where my wallet had been returned and there was a note inside of it that somebody had found my wallet, recognized my name, gone online, found out who my agent was, contacted my agency, found got a message to found out that I was where hotel I was staying in and delivered the All of which seemed so much effort. I was really moved by that act of generosity. But it's also the power of empathy, isn't it? >> Well, the show is really geared to be an empathy generator. And to say, "Don't judge. Don't judge. You don't know what somebody else is going through. You have no idea what their morning was or what's what they're struggling with." And you know, it to your point, when we show up in an emergency room and it's the worst day of our life and we're being treated by people who do that four times an hour, 12 hours a day, five days a week over a career, it's good to have the compassion for the people that are attending our wounds as well. Do you think we've really lost the art of empathy in our society or do you think that things like this show are still there? >> human and I think that we feel disconnected from something that we desperately know that we need and we're figuring out how to get back to it actively. Cuz it's also a show where it is all about community, isn't it? And actually all the main characters aren't living their lives sat on their phones. And I was reading that isn't there a cell phone ban on set? >> Yeah. So, cell phones are really interesting invasive energy to bring onto a film set because before the advent of film of phones, actors had to sit around and talk to each other. You would rehearse, you'd run lines, you'd play little games with each other, you'd get to know each other, you'd do all that bonding stuff that shows up in relationship texture on camera. So, I love that we shut the outside world out when we come in to be in this environment. We're very strict on our set to a degree. But it it's all geared towards two things. One, focusing on the work and two, fostering a sense of culture in the way that we make the show. For example, all of our crew members are issued hospital scrubs and are expected to wear them every day instead of street clothes so that when they come to work, if we accidentally see them in a reflection of a shop, it looks like they're organic to the space. But moreover, it's to sort of say there is no cast, there is no crew, there is no foreground, there is no background. We are all company and we're all going to come here today and do this work and tell this story together. But it all sort of goes into making it a pleasant place to be every day, a fun place to work, a place where you enjoy spending 12 to 14 hours a day and look forward to coming back. >> I guess as well, you get to dictate the tone of a set being an exact producer and being a leader and coming out at the forefront. Is there a moment of poor leadership that's inspired you to become the leader that you wanted to be? I've been very fortunate. Whether I radiate an energy that makes it very hard for people [clears throat] to act unprofessional, I've encountered it very infrequently in my career. But I will say that the lesson was taught to me by the late Rob Reiner on the when I had a small part in the movie A Few Good Men. He welcomed me and everybody to that set in such a generous, embracing, excited, >> [sighs] >> just enthusiastic way. And it took about 8 seconds for him to do it and it made all the difference in me being relaxed and wanting to give my best work that I took that example onto every film set I've been on and I'm the first hand of welcome. I always want everybody to know that we're super excited that they're there and I'm there if they need anything over the course of the day, that it should be fun and don't take it too seriously. >> Yeah, that's such a special thing to get very early in your career. >> Well, it's self-serving in a way because, you know, fear is the attendant emotion on on a film set. Everybody shows up worried that they're not going to do a good enough job or they're going to be called out as an impostor. And it gets in the way of people being able to be relaxed enough to do their best work. So, if you can get rid of that anxiety early on and just say, "You're here because you're really, really good. We're super excited you're here. It's going to be fun." >> Yeah. When have you felt like an impostor? Until about it uh 8, 9 months ago, pretty much 24/7. Really? Yeah. What changed? I won a bunch of trophies. Yeah. >> [laughter] >> Validation does work, guys. Well, I think it was more than the trophies. It was feeling like, I'll be honest, you know, working for HBO Max is is is a is a career aspiration. When you're on an HBO show, you feel like you've arrived and that you're doing something that's of of quality. And to be on the writing staff of of an HBO show or to direct an HBO show feels like a pedigreed achievement. And to get to wear as many hats as I'm wearing on this one, it predicated that I stop pretending like I I didn't know what I was doing and and I started acting like I did. Is that something you wish you could go back and kind of impart that in younger you? Or are you kind of glad you went on that journey? >> I needed to go on the journey I went on. I'd like to go back I'd like to believe that I could go back and say, "Hey, all that anxiety was such a waste of energy, all that doubt, all that self-sabotaging behavior, what a waste of time." But ultimately, I think it was it's past is always prologue, you know, you always end up where you are because of where you've been and it's hard to unravel those those threads. Oh my god, the past is always prologue. That's a great line. It's not mine. Where'd you get that from? Shakespeare, probably. Yeah, probably. I was going to say that's I was like, "Wow, that's really good." We should pop that on a tea towel. >> I steal from the best. Yeah, and you get to work with a huge cast of incredibly gifted actors. And and you always have been lucky, I think from watching your career, to have those kind of amazing people around you and to build that teamwork and to build those relationships. Is there a teammate that you've found in your career who's been who's shown you what teamwork really means? Oh my gosh, yeah, tons. Well, the first one that comes to mind is Clooney. Clooney's like the ultimate team player. And he early on on ER, he called us all into his trailer and said, "Okay, guys, here's the deal. I've been on a lot of shows that haven't worked. So, I've only been on a couple that have. Here's what I think the secret sauce is. We're all going to be nice to each other. We're all going to show up on time. We're all going to learn our lines. We're all going to take our work seriously, but we're not going to take ourselves seriously. And we're going to be nice to everybody. We're going to be nice to the foreground, the background. We're going to be nice to the cast, the crew. We're going to be nice to everybody." And we were all young or inexperienced enough to go, "Okay, George." Whatever you say. >> Whatever you say. And it certainly was the most pleasant way to be. I didn't realize how rare it was until that show ended and I got on other sets trying to find that sense of camaraderie, that sense of family, that sense of play. And you find it in degrees with people, but not as uniformly as we had it on ER, and I credit George a lot with framing the experience for what we were going to be doing. I think it's so great to hear you talking like this, cuz I feel like it's so rare to sit across from a man in sci-fi show and actually find someone who's open and talks about actually being a good guy. Like cuz we need because we need more. Like especially when you're going back to the conversation about incel culture, right? Like we platform so many of the wrong kind of role models, I think, especially on social media. >> Yeah, I think that's true. And actually we need to see more positive male role models. And from what you were saying, all these great positive male role models come into your life and they've helped you so much. True. Um yeah, definitely a product of my influences, for sure. And try to pay it back, pay it forward when possible. Although I got to say this young ensemble, they don't need me much. I am always try Hey, you guys need any help? Need any advice? Need an anecdote to frighten No, okay, you guys are good. I'll be over here if you need me. Yeah, and they're like we got this. We've been playing Operation since we're like 10, so it's fine. Well, they've been They're I think just more self-aware. And you did spend a few weeks, didn't you, with actual medical practitioners learning how to do We did. We sent everybody to boot camp. medical school condensed into a 2-week television prep course. Yeah. This is what you're going to say, this is what you're going to do, this is what you have to feel. What's your favorite medical line that you love saying? Is it like stat? What is there? I've never really said stat. No? I've been a doctor for a long time. You never said stat? Get the stat. I mean when we were on ER, that was like the thing. Nobody ever says stat. Anybody says stat, you're fired. Cuz it's not real. And yet everybody thinks Yeah, they always say the same thing. >> decades. My favorite medical term to say, supraventricular tachycardia. >> [laughter] >> What the [ __ ] does that mean? >> rolls right off the tongue, though. Do you know what it means? It's like I think it's your like, you know, heart rate. Is it a heart thing? It's going heart palpitations really fast. Wow. Yeah, that's always like trying to work out how to say supercalifragilisticexpialidocious, isn't it? There was one my dad taught us when we were young. Pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis. That sounds like a Harry Potter No, it's real. It's a lung disease that horses get. Mhm. But it doesn't show up in the ER very often. I also wondered, speaking of your parents, cuz your mom was a nurse, wasn't she? Did taking on this role and really getting into the depths of what goes on in their psyche change the way you thought about your mom, or did it open up new conversations for you? No, she opened up new conversations. She watched episode 13 of season 1, Robbie breakdown episode. Came to my house that Sunday, just pacing around the kitchen, and I said, "What's up?" She goes, "Oh, I keep thinking about your show." And I keep thinking about your show. Really brought some stuff up for me. I said, "Oh, yeah? Like what?" She goes, "I just started thinking about some patients, you know, that I lost. I started thinking about this pregnant mother and this 8-year-old kid that I had to put in a drawer and this gangbanger I tried to save, pumping blood into him." And I'm listening to these stories going, "Never heard those before." And she said, "Yeah, it really struck a nerve." And I said, "Mom, I was on a medical show for 15 years. You never told me these stories." She goes, "Well, that wasn't real." I said, "Well, this one isn't either." And she goes, "Well, this one felt real enough." And so we started talking, and I said I thought to myself, "Wait a second, so [snorts] you put an 8-year-old kid in a drawer. When was that?" And she goes, "Oh, your brother was probably eight. That's probably why it hit me so hard." And you just sort of I looked at this woman going, "So you Wait a second, let me get this straight. So you came home, you helped us with our homework, you drove us to baseball practice, you made dinner that night, but you didn't mention you'd put the kid in the drawer. Where did you put that memory, Mom?" And she's like, "Somewhere." And then you think to yourself, this is my own I work with doctors and nurses all day long half for years. Give them all the empathy and compassion of recognizing that this is what they do all day. Never extended that to my own mother. Wow. Yeah. And so we're having this, you know, lovely new relationship. And in fact, together got to bring our careers together and go to Washington, D.C. last year in a mission of advocacy to try to lobby the U.S. Congress to pass some legislation, which would be very friendly to practitioners. And so she got to march with nurses, and we got to go and um meet some of our elected representatives and try to do some good together. It was cool. That's so special you get to do that together. That was like core memory, you know, which you don't expect to have this late into the mother-son relationship, but in some ways it's way more profound. Yeah, and meaningful. Yeah. It's a new understanding, right? >> True. It's so special to hear you talking like that, and I think so many people will resonate with that, and it will encourage them to have new conversations with their parents as well, which is >> are people, dammit. They're people. But we always end on one final question Okay. on this podcast. It's all about starting important conversations. >> Yeah. What do you think we should all be talking about more? Commonality. I think we've been extremely adept at highlighting and and and owning what separates us. I would love to see a a new emphasis on the things that that align us. Mhm. I love that. Perfect ending. Cool. Thank you so much, Noah. This was lovely chatting. So great chatting to you. >> Now we're really talking. Don't forget to subscribe or follow so you never miss a chat. And remember to leave us a review if you're loving the show, cuz it really helps us keep the conversation going. And don't forget you can watch Josh Smith's great chat show for free on Spotify.