(upbeat music) - Sadie, I'm so happy
you're back on Broadway and I'm so happy that everything happened. And look at this, Tony nominee. - I know, it's wild. - [Paul] It's exciting.
- It's so exciting. - You know, actually, the
other thing I noticed today as I was walking here, I
love that you get to be in the letter lights above the Booth Theatre. That's like, isn't that iconic? - It's insane. - To see your name literally
in lights with light bulbs? - I know, I know. Yeah, I remember that went up
before rehearsals even started and I saw it and I just, my jaw dropped. It was crazy. - You gotta get up
there for a photo shoot. - [Sadie] I know, right?
- Yeah, it's like. - [Sadie] Actually we,
I'm not gonna say that. - Okay.
(both laughing) - We have been to the roof. - Did the coven already
do something on the roof? - Well.
(Paul laughing) - So also excited because
I saw you as Annie. Yeah, I saw you as Annie, so like. - Are you sure it was me? - It's been pretty, yeah, oh yeah. Well, I mean, I was doing my job. - Yeah, yeah. - I knew your name and everything. - You knew it was me? - Yeah, I knew exactly who you were. - That's crazy. - I'm kind of an "Annie" super fan, so I actually saw your
Annie, so it's a great. - Wow.
- It's quite an evolution. - Yeah. - With "Stranger Things", of course, dropped in the middle there. - Yes. - But it's incredible to see
you now as this young woman getting to tell this
incredibly powerful story. What's it like for you? Is it the emotions of
being a young Broadway girl and then getting to come back in this way? - Oh, I mean, it's like, it's incredible. I just, I love Broadway so much and obviously it's what
got me into everything and I always wanted to come back, but in a way that felt right. - [Paul] Yeah. - And felt like it was the right project. And I read Kimberly's script and it was like, okay,
this has to be done. I didn't know it would come to Broadway, but I was like, we need to do this. I just wanna be a part of this. And then it got to this
point, which I think was, I don't know, I didn't,
it just kind of happened. And to see people are showing up and really responding to it. - [Paul] Yeah. - Yeah, it's really special. - Yeah. The night I went, I mean the audience is, first of all, they're so loud. I mean, the girls and the energy. It's so unique actually to see. And the female energy and
the young female energy, and it's really beautiful
when you see a show that really is connecting
with people in a special way. - Totally, and I think
Kimberly does such a good job of just really meeting
my generation, Gen Z, where they're at and not making them too mature or unrealistic. We're dumbing them down in a way. It just feels really authentic. They all feel like girls you know. - [Paul] Yeah. - And the performances by our
amazing cast helps a lot too. - [Paul] Yeah, yeah. - But yeah, it's been so rewarding seeing how locked in everybody is
and we're getting reactions in the places that we need them. And everyone's so enthusiastic and it deals with really dark themes, but I think in such a digestible way too to where it's cathartic at the end. So yeah, that's been amazing to see. - It also just feels like
such a great project for you and the kind of fans you have and the kind of fans
your work has inspired. I mean, it just feels like this was all meant to happen, right? - Yeah, it does. I think Shelby's definitely like, I don't know, she's so
complex and has, I don't know, she's just a really delicious character. - [Paul] Yeah. - And it's been amazing
to kind of develop her and continue to get to
know her over performances. But I think she's someone that, yeah, hopefully people can come
see and understand her and that's felt really good. Yeah, and the show as a
whole, it's just been, people have really been moved by it. - Safe to assume that
you watched the Tony's a lot growing up? - [Sadie] Every year.
- Okay, every year. Yeah.
- [Sadie] Every year. - Do you remember the
first one you watched? - I feel like the first one
I was actually fighting over the TV 'cause my older brothers were probably watching football. (Paul laughing) But I remember the first one. - [Paul] Tonys are on. - I know, I know.
(Paul laughing) Oh, I also remember
the Neil Patrick Harris magic show one. Do you remember that
one where he had these? - [Paul] Yes, yes, yeah. - This big opening.
- [Paul] Yes. - I remember watching that one and I think I went in-person
the following year. - Okay, cool. - Sitting in the way back.
- Cool, cool. So you've been.
- [Sadie] Yes. - But now you get to sit up front and you get to wear incredible fashion. And are you excited for
the fashion of it all? - Oh, yes. - I mean, you're very good at it. - [Sadie] Absolutely. - You're very good at it, yeah. So it's gonna be a big exciting night and I know the whole
cast is going, I think. Right, the coven I've heard is going? - The coven's gonna go. - [Paul] Yeah.
- Yeah. I'm actually, it's funny, the last time I was on
the Tonys red carpet, I was not supposed to be there. - [Paul] You crashed it? - I crashed it, but Helen
Mirren made us crash it 'cause she wanted me in. - Oh yeah, yeah, of course. - [Sadie] I was gonna cheer.
- Yeah, yeah. The audience, yeah. - Go and walk the red carpet with her. So she literally went up to the barricades and the security and got us
and told the security guard, no, no, they're with me, and
then took us on the red carpet. - Yeah. - So I'll never forget that. - Yeah.
- So, yeah. But I wasn't prepared fashion wise but I will be this time. - Right, right. No, this time I think you've stepped up your game a little bit since then. (Paul laughing) Thank you so much.
- Thank you. - I'm so thrilled for you. - Thanks.
- Congratulations. (upbeat music)