Okay, I'm going to talk to you about Peter Thiel. I think he's one of the most misunderstood people out there.
The thing is, I found out about Peter Thiel from Tim Ferriss, and Tim Ferriss, you know, with The 4-Hour Workweek, The 4-Hour Body, The 4-Hour Chef, and your Tools of Titans, all these self-help books.
Pretty good. But one of the things he did in Tools of Titans, I mean he does this podcast that he interviews all these famous people, but one of the people that he talked about and he heard about is Peter Thiel.
This was back in like 2012, if you're looking at that, like a little while back.
And basically, Peter Thiel was a smart guy where he was an investor. He was a very successful investor.
And the thing is, like, everyone was trying to sort of copy what he was doing. They called it the Oracle of Silicon Valley because every time he invested in the company it grew.
Now you could say, like, okay, like, whatever, like, that might not be impressive to you, but there's a lot of rich people trying to make money and not able to succeed.
There's a lot of businesses that start and, you know, they're trying to make money, like, they don't become profitable or whatever.
And it's for slow reasons, but Peter Thiel basically figured out he had a methodology for finding out businesses that could succeed.
And so, it's just like ahead of the game. So, he had to also understand. And he invested in Facebook when Facebook was just an idea.
And he was, like, one of the first people who, like, found the Oracle of Silicon Valley and was talking to him and was like, okay, man, this is a great idea.
And then Facebook became what it became.
Also, before this, he started PayPal with Elon Musk. Actually, they enjoyed companies, but this was, like, a while back and, like, he ran that company with Elon Musk and there were several people that came out of that.
And so, like, people say, oh, fuck. Back then, he was, like, one of the only people thinking about the future.
And what he was trying to do is he was trying to create a digital currency with PayPal.
And they basically ended up pivoting to be like, okay, we're not going to create a digital currency, but we will make it so that people can make these payments online with PayPal.
And then everyone was like, oh, yeah, that's a great idea. Like, banks, like, all these different people were like, oh, yeah, you shouldn't be able to pay online.
And he did that with Elon Musk back in the day, and that's how Elon made his first big change, too. He was working with Peter Thiel at PayPal.
Also, like, there were several people that came out of PayPal after they all made money. The founders of YouTube, the guy who created LinkedIn, Green Hoffman, a few other people.
Yeah, it was a real big thing for him. And, you know, he talks about a bunch of different things, but this is way back when.
Then, I don't remember when Palantu was founded, but he basically was like, the government sucks. They can't do anything efficiently. They have really outdated everything.
I want to help the government be efficient, and they have all this data stuff. It's like, use the data and do what you're supposed to do as government, as government entities.
So he basically helped started Palantir, and Palantir is so misunderstood, but it's a data aggregation intelligence platform. And that's the way I see it.
But basically, companies that have a lot of data, or government that has a lot of data, Palantir comes in alongside them and basically helps them use all their data and make it actionable.
It does a whole bunch of stuff so that people can, like, use the data and find insights and do stuff that really makes sense. That's a high-level view.
But basically, people end up paying for Palantir because, like, oh my gosh, yeah, this is amazing. Now we can do all this stuff because we're using Palantir. It's really basic, but in order for them to do the stuff that Palantir does, it requires them a ton of time.
But Palantir is working with all these companies, like, oh yeah, we're just going to plug in your stuff, come in here, build this for you, oh, you need this and this, swap it in, and then like, holy crap.
And to give you an idea of the kind of problems that they solve, a lot of supply chain issues, supply chain forecasting, and like, but it can be extrapolated to a bunch of things.
And it was rumored that they helped find Osama bin Laden using one of their platforms to kind of triangulate all that information to be like, okay, based off this, this, this, this, this, this, this, we think that it's all pointing towards here, check here, oh shoot, this is Osama bin Laden.
And no one was really able to correlate all that data, but they were able to do it with Palantir. So that's the kind of thing that he was thinking about back then.
Now it's become a thing of where Palantir is like this crazy dystopian company that's like spying on people, it enables their government to do crazy shit, but it's like, the original idea is just like, make the government efficient, make companies efficient.
Like, they don't know how to do all this data. Like, they don't know what to do with their data. So that was the basic core thing. But meanwhile he's doing that, he's off doing a ton of other stuff.
He's a king of side quests. It's not even a side quest. He's the most curious person out there. Like, he talked to people who talked to him, who didn't know him. They say one, he's extremely diligent, but also he's extremely curious.
And he asked all these questions to kind of find different things. So he was a guest lecturer at Stanford. Some people loved his course so much that they wrote a book about it.
They compiled all his notes from his courses, and it's called Zero to One, and it's like one of the foundational books for creating a startup. And one of the things he talks about is, if you're going to start a company, you need to have a secret.
A secret sauce, or a secret something. Because that's the only way you're going to differentiate yourself. A secret can take on multiple forms, but it's basically like, if you like everyone else, then people are going to copy you and compete against you.
But if you know something that everyone else doesn't, or maybe people misunderstand this one part, and you understand it correctly, that's go to the secret, and you're able to leverage that and make your business grow.
And he talks about Google, and he was like, Google has a frick ton of money, but like, if you think about Google, most people don't understand it, and the government doesn't understand it, and the government hasn't regulated it, because Google says, we're a search engine. Anyone can be a search engine.
Like, this is fine, but Google doesn't make money off the search engine. They make money off of selling ads, and they're more of an ad platform than a search engine.
So it's like, how do you say it? So to most people, it's like, oh, Google just provides me so much value. Well, yes, they do provide value to you, but they also, these multi-million dollar, billion dollar businesses who want to sell stuff, they'll have to go through Google to talk to their customer, to advertise to their customer.
And Google is the only game in town, or at least was the only game in town. No one else could basically get to their customers except through Google.
So there's a lot there, so that was one of the underlying secrets of Google, or just something that was misunderstood.
It was like, Google owns what people think about, and search for, and can find.
And if you think about it, like Google's gatekeeping knowledge, but you could say another way, it's like, oh, no, we're providing access, but it's like, how do you phrase it? Anyway, so he's like talking about this kind of stuff.
The other thing he's like, he said this a while back, he's like, college is a scam, don't go to college, you're not learning anything good. He basically said college is like the Catholic Church selling indulgences.
Indulgences are like, this is way back when medieval times were basically like, indulgences were like, tickets to heaven, so rich people were buying indulgences to get their ticket to heaven, to pay monetarily for their sins, and then they're free to do all the sinning, whatever they want, and they're just buying indulgences.
And it was like a scam. Same way for college is like, we're not gonna really teach you something, but we're gonna give you a certificate saying you have a bachelor's, you have a master's, you have a degree, and it's an indulgence, you don't actually know how to do shit, but it's a piece of paper that lets you use that.
So he basically was like, this is bullshit, it's a credentialing system that means nothing, and he was saying this a way back when.
He created a program for people to drop out of college and start businesses and stuff like that.
He would pay young people, I think it was like 100k or 200k, drop out of college for two years to just go work on whatever idea that they had, and obviously they'd bet the ideas and bet the people before they just give them this money, but that was the kind of vibe he was doing, he was like, no, stop going the route that everyone else is going, go do a different route.
So that's his mindset. He's a contrarian.
Also, back to 2015, 2016, he's been talking about this stuff, he's finding a volunteer. 2016 was a decade ago, and that's when Trump first came to office.
You know who backed Trump in the beginning when he was a long shot? Who is this weird guy? Peter Thiel. Peter Thiel was like, Trump can do some good shit.
He backed Trump, and I think he also, in one of his talks, he talked about the phrase of make America great again, and he basically said that is the perfect slogan, because it encapsulates something's lost, people who want something, who feel pain and feel like society's not doing good, they want to make America great again, make it, they want to improve things.
And that basically was like, clearly spoke to so many, so much of what Americans were feeling, but he said that was a perfect marketing slogan, and he was like, can you even remember what Hillary's slogan was? Can you remember what Obama's was?
Do something different, or it's time for a change or something? But it's nowhere near as good of a slogan as make America great again. It brings to mind the history in a positive way, saying that, oh, we were great, let's be great again, let's get back on track, let's do good.
Obama was like, oh, we're doing all this progress, but people's lives weren't improving. I mean, some people were, the majority were like, no, this sucks. Our life sucks. We need to get back to where we're doing good again. Trump comes on the scene and says, I'm going to clean up the swamp, I'm going to do all this stuff, and I'm already rich, I know what it's like to make it now, I'm doing this because
I want to make America great again, as opposed to politicians who aren't already rich, who aren't proven in the business world, who haven't built anything. It was nice that Trump is like, oh, I've already had success, now I'm going to bring that success to America, and like, I know how to run this America.
It has zero success, they're just advocating for good ideas, and what they think are good ideas, and like, oh, I think if we do all this stuff, we'll make it work. It's like, you have no track record of success, but you just think you have a good idea.
Anyway, so Peter Thiel backed Trump way back then, which is crazy. And then recently, he got distanced from Trump, and there's a few other things I'm skipping over, but like, think about how counterintuitive that was back then.
Like, to back Trump, to say Trump has a thing, I think Peter Thiel came up with the slogan, make America great again. Now, because he's malicious, but because he's like, fucking smart.
But one of the things he says now, people are like, oh, he's talking to the anti-Christ, he thinks Greta Thunberg is an anti-Christ.
He says that because...
If you think about what to do with climate change,
it's basically like an existential thing of like, the world's ending, the climate is changing, so we need to do something. It's like, everyone's going to die if we don't do bubble and that.
That's a really compelling thing. And there's this young girl, filled with anger, and she's just like, you are killing my future, you are killing everything.
Like, it remains to be seen that the timeline of when the world's going to end due to climate change, but like, that is like a runaway idea that can gain momentum.
And it's like, we need to stop everything, we need to make Greta Thunberg, like Greta Thunberg's like, stop everything, make me king so we can prevent the ending of the world.
And that's a way to garner runaway power, because it's hard to stand up against that.
Seeing some real negative effects of climate change, Greta Thunberg can be like, I told you so, you guys, blah blah blah, and like, people can just gravitate towards her, she's positioned herself as like, the person to gain ultimate power based off climate change doing that.
So she's like, anyway, he says this, the Antichrist thing, because it says, instead of continuing to make progress, make innovations, figure out engineering ways to recycle energy or keep technological progress going forward, you could say, actually stop all technological progress,
because we need to do something in that basically destroys the world and then attempt to save versus continue technological progress, and we'll eventually do technological progress, figure out how to save ourselves versus so it's like figure out how to save yourself through technology versus stop doing everything.
We're not going to do any progress, because you might hurt the world. So it's just like, one's moving forward, one's moving backwards. And that's why he says basically, Greta Thunberg is the Antichrist.
So anyway, oh my gosh, there's so many more interesting details up here to like, one, he's gay. He's a gay, right leaning conservative. I mean, he's not really, he would say he's a libertarian, but he spoke at the RNC.
And he's like, you know, we've come a long way. It's like, who would have thought that there'd be a gay person speaking at the conservative convention or the RNC or something. And it was silent when he said that.
That was such a crazy moment when he said that.
But yeah, he's not, he's not your typical, like you think if he's gay, he'd be a left leaning person who'd love him a little while, but he's not. So there's just so many interesting parts of people too. Anyway, the other thing is that he's not power hungry. He's very fearful of certain things.
He was very fearful of China in its surveillance state, but it's funny with the volunteer he's creating, he's enabling the government to do a surveillance state. He talked about cryptocurrency being the ultimate freedom, like cryptocurrency, anonymized, secure money that the government can't control.
Or it's kind of like, you can have your money in cryptocurrency and no one can take it from you and you can, like, it's yours and you're outside the thumb of government. He says that's the ultimate freedom.
And the thing of ultimate control of, like, socialism is AI because with AI you can do mass surveillance and mass control of the population. So he says basically cryptocurrency and AI are at odds.
But yeah, so he's on to a lot of his laughs, so it's really interesting. Yeah, all right, bye.
