Well, first of all, David, I can't
believe all these years and I have not
interviewed you. So, I'm so happy to be
here next year. Me, too. Me, too. And
so, let's start at the very beginning of
why we're here. So, I am eight. Yeah. To
you. Why did you get involved and what
was it about for you? Well, I I always
wanted to get involved in the health
space, you know, obviously since I
retired, you know, and I've taken
supplements my whole career, you know,
and I wanted it simplified. So, when I
met the team at Prrenetics, I knew that
they were doing this for the right
reasons. I know they wanted to bring
this product into the market that made a
difference for people, but also made it
more simple for people. You know, I've
I've always been one of those people
that goes in the stores, you see a wall
of different products, and you just
don't really know what you're taking. We
are very transparent with everything
that goes into, you know, IM8. The
ingredients is out there to see, and
it's the best of the ingredients. So,
it's all done to simplify really my my
supplement world and teaming with the
best of the best, NASA, some impressive
people. I know. I know. When I sit with
the team, I sit with the advisory board
and and I'm like, "Okay, I'm not going
to say anything. I'm just going to let
you guys talk cuz I just want to learn."
Sure. I just want to learn from these
guys. So, you are a busy guy being here
in South Florida. You were telling me
you're here half the time. What is it
about Miami in your heart that brought
us here so many years ago to really want
to do soccer and everything here? You
know, it's always been a special place,
uh, Miami to me. Um, and I remember when
I first started having the conversations
about bringing a team here and people
were like, "No, don't go to Miami. It's
a tough sporting city. It's" and I was
like, "No, I've got a feeling about
Miami." And then when I came here and
spent time here, I I fell in love and my
whole family fell in love with Miami.
And it's just, you know, to be able to
bring the team here to Miami to be able
to bring the players that I always
promised, you know, from day one. I made
the promise of saying, I'm going to
bring the best players in the world to
this team and to this city. And pro, it
was probably a silly promise at the time
because you never know. You never know
if you get the opportunity to bring the
best players. I just was able to bring
the best player to ever play the game to
this city and it's something we're very
proud of. And we've got, you know, Jordi
Alba, we've got Sergio Busett, we've got
Luis Suarez and all of the players that
we've, you know, it's making the city
very proud for sure. And I just look
went by that stadium the other day and
it's coming along. It's coming along.
It's going fast. There's a lot of people
on the ground. So, it's uh Yeah, it's
that's that's really exciting. And it's
just another layer of what we're trying
to give back to Miami. And you know, I'm
very lucky to have Jorge and Jose Mass
as incredible partners, you know, that
really believe in in the city and really
believe what we're doing. So you are re
you are turning 50 though you're
celebrating early 50 here. Is it because
Miami is the party scene? What early on?
My Miami is my second home. So obviously
we're here as a family. So, I thought
this is the opportunity to actually
celebrate with my family, a few of the
players and friends. So, we're all in
one place, you know, a few weeks ahead
of my actual birthday, but that's okay.
You know, Miamiy's, you know, it's all
about that. So, it's a party town. Yeah,
it's Do you have any favorites haunts,
little dinner spots or breakfast places
or what do you like best about?
Enriqueetas. Enriquetas. Of a classic.
My favorite. You know, that was the
first place Jorge and Joseé Mass took me
after the the
the announcement and we went there to
celebrate with a Cuban sandwich and uh
and a little Cuban coffee and it was and
I've been going there ever since. On a
Friday they do the fresh pulled pork.
So, Friday is the day to go. Legendary.
Yeah, it's the best. And as far as you
know, the connection to community and
philanthropy here, you I know love to
get involved with everything. How do you
feel that you're really connecting with
this community here in Miami? Well, I
think how we connect with the community
in Miami is through the club, you know,
through with what we've doing. We're
into Miami with the academy. You know,
the academy is something from day one.
It's not been as important as the main
team, but it's been just as important,
maybe if not more important than the
first team because I think what we have
with the grassroots soccer and what we
have with the academy, we're giving the
kids in Miami and South Florida the
opportunity to come and play the game
and come and learn about the game with
great coaches. And then all of a sudden,
you know, you sign a player like Leo
Messi. Yeah. And these young players are
training in the evening and Leo will
walk onto the pitch and go and watch.
Yeah. And that's imagine that. Imagine
that. My you like if my hero walked onto
the pitch when I was a young kid, it's
the best thing. So it gives these kids a
real like moment, you know, to meet
their hero, but also to play the game
and to learn about the game. And that's
what we're trying to do. We're trying to
like help the future of this game in
this country, in this city, you know,
get to a point where at one point the US
will contend in a World Cup. That's
amazing. It really will. I believe that
they will win the World Cup one time. I
just can't talk to you without talking
about your Netflix special and how like
it gave me the chill bumps. That's okay.
I love talking about it and Okay, good.
and never realizing because I live
through it and was a fan of yours really
the pain that you went through and the
hard times if how did you kind of come
through it and look at you now you have
businesses galore but you really went
through it well I came through it
because I had incredible people around
me you know I I I had incredible parents
that supported me from day one um I had
amazing sisters I had my grandparents
and then obviously later on in life I
met my wife that you know we've been
together for 28 years in July So, you
know, we've been together for a long,
long time. We've got incredible
children, but those tough moments are
meant to challenge us. And, you know,
there were a few along the way, a few
more than I probably wanted, but you
know, that's part of life and it's part
of the challenge of life. And you know,
at the end of the day, I will never
complain about anything in my life
because I feel very blessed to have had
a career that I've had, to have played
the game that I love, and now, you know,
having my own team in Miami and and
creating memories for these young kids.
And as far as um in South Florida, do
you have a perfect day, a fun thing you
like to do here when you wake up in the
morning? What's a typical day for David
Beckham? My typical day really is uh I
get up earlier than most of my family
actually. First I'm the first one up. Me
and Victoria normally work out together
and then I head towards the stadium. I
go to the stadium, watch the team train,
come back and even go to the beach with
the kids and then go out for for a nice
dinner and then and then that's really
it. So life is just continues to be
great. It's simple. It's simple. That's
how that's how we like it. And now do
you take one of these supplements every
day? Is that what you're doing? I've
I've been taking this for the last 8
months. And in all honesty, you know, I
know I'm here to promote IMA, but
there's a reason I'm promoting it
because it's making me feel better. It's
making people feel better, you know,
that I've given it to. You know, my
family are all on it. Um, I feel
sharper. I feel more focused. My energy
is different. I'm sleeping better,
thankfully. Um, and it's an all round
incredible supplement product. All
right. And last question is before we
wrap. Um, as far as the people here in
South Florida, I mean, I think people
have really kind of surrounded you with
love here. Are you feeling it from the
Miami Love? Oh my goodness. You know,
from from day one, the love that I've
always felt from people in Miami and
South Florida has been really, really
incredible. Not just to me, but to my
whole family. And that means something.
You know, when you when you come to a
new city and you bring your whole
family, you know, when you get welcomed
the way we've been welcomed, I have to
say thank you because it's been
incredible. All right. And you're
braving another summer here. I hear I'm
braving another summer here. We love the
summers. You're going to sweat it out
with us. Oh, yes. I'll see you on the
beach. I'll see you on the beach. What
we do? Yeah. All right. Thank you so
much.
